Now let's talk about DevOps and how it bridges the gap
between development and production operations.
Now, let's revisit our Kanban value stream running example.
We have specify, implement, validate, deliver,
and of course, the backlog is feeding into the specify step.
The concept of DevOps is that we want to marry
development with the operations side.
Let's see how that's done.
So dev plus ops, or development and operations, equals DevOps.
We want the entire cycle, also referred to as the pipeline,
to be a smooth process end to end, from specify,
implement, validate, deliver on the left,
to deploy, configure, monitor, and maintain on the right.
In the past,
the most challenging place to connect development with
operations is easier to see if we remove,
specify, implement, validate, and also remove,
configure, monitor, and maintain.
These two roads can now be connected much more smoothly between deliver and
deploy by using and leveraging the great tools of DevOps.
Also, sometimes operations includes easy low‑level application maintenance,
and sometimes not.
All of these approaches and configurations of Kanban,
agile, scrum, and operations and production can be designed
as you see fit for your organization.
There is no one best way.
But as I have showed you in this course,
I have presented an approach to get you started, and
you can enhance it from there.
Let's see how DevOps got its start.
First, lean and agile revolutionized software development.
We have come a long way from the linear waterfall or traditional
approach to software development, and thank goodness. The agile or
lean approach to software development spawned scrum, Kanban,
extreme programming, and many more.
The most common seems to be agile, scrum, and Kanban today.
But what these new approaches to software development did
not do is tackle or reduce the giant chasm or gap between
the developers and operations.
You've probably heard the phrase "just throw it over the wall," and that
is still very typical in some organizations today.
DevOps started officially about 2008 and 9 in Europe,
and it is here to stay for sure.
So the key takeaway is that DevOps lets us better provide
continuous value to our customers all the way through the
process, again, from backlog to installed into production and
our customers using the software.
Now for a more formal definition of DevOps. DevOps is a set of practices
that combines software development and the IT operations.
Its goal is to shorten the systems development lifecycle and provide
continuous deployment with high software quality.
And DevOps is just so complementary with lean and agile software development. It really is a marriage made in heaven.